Welcome to my YouTube channel.
In today's video,
we're diving into the exciting world
of After Effects expressions.
If you're looking to take your animations
to the next level and unlock a whole new
realm of creative possibilities,
you've come to the right place.
In this comprehensive guide,
I'll provide you
with a solid introduction
to expressions in After Effects,
covering everything you need to know
to get started
from the basics of writing expressions
to powerful techniques for automation,
animation,
and creating complex motion graphics.
We've got you covered,
so let's jump right in and explore
the fascinating world of expressions
in After Effects.
So what are expressions?
Expressions are a powerful
scripting feature
that allows you to automate animation,
create complex motion graphics
and link properties together dynamically.
They are written in a scripting language
based on JavaScript.
Extending the functionality
of the software
beyond simple keyframe based animation.
Now let's talk about
expressions versus keyframes.
Why should I use expressions
and not keyframe?
Well, keyframes provide manual control
and precise adjustments,
while expressions offer
automation, adaptability,
and the ability to create complex
interactive animations.
Both techniques have their strengths
and using a combination of keyframes
and expressions
can empower you to create
stunning and dynamic animations
in After Effects.
We don't use expressions
to make our lives more difficult
by having to learn more things.
We use expressions
to make our lives easier
and have the code automate things for us.
Expressions in
After Effects are written in a language
based on JavaScript.
So spaces don't matter too much,
but caps do.
You need to write words exactly
as they need to be,
or the expression will not work.
Here in After Effects,
I already have a project
which I called AE Expressions.
It doesn't matter.
Create a new project,
call it whatever you want.
Now I'm going to create a new composition
that is control or command N
and now I'm going to name this expressions
and I'll leave the defaults.
So 1920 by 1080 is good
and 29 nine, seven as good as well.
Now we need to have a layer to work with.
So I'm going to grab my rectangle tool
and I'm going to create
a rectangle shape in here
and green is fine.
So here we go.
I'll press and hold a shift key as I draw
to constrain this to a perfect square.
So here we go.
I am going to select the selection tool,
our present whole control,
and now I'll double click
the anchor point tool.
And there you have it.
Now, my anchor point is centered
on this layer thing.
That cool.
All right, So now let's add
an expression
to the position of this layer.
So select a layer, press P for position.
And now let's add the expression.
You can select position
and then you can go to animation,
add expression, but
is so much more fun
if you press and hold the alt key,
which is option on the Mac
and now click on the stopwatch
as soon as you do that,
a couple of things happen.
Number one, your numbers turn red.
What that means is that you are no longer
in charge of these values.
The expression is
Now we
have some other icons here at the bottom
and we have a place
to type here in the timeline.
So the first thing we're going to do
is talk about this.
What this is saying
is it's looking at itself
is saying, hey,
for the position of this layer,
look at the position of this layer,
because position is inside of transform.
So if we were to collapse the layer
and expand it again, notice
that transform has anchor point,
position, scale,
rotation and opacity
and the expression is in position.
So the expression
in language is saying, Hey,
look at transform
then position of this layer.
In other words, is like looking at
the mirror is saying, Hey,
for the position of this layer,
look at the position of this layer.
It's doing nothing. But
we can type
now anything else we want to type.
Let's start with a very simple wiggle
expression.
This is perhaps the expression
that I use the most.
So you can click on the word
transform position and notice
that they're all selected.
I mean, you don't have to go again
and select them again.
They're already selected and now type
the word wiggle all lowercase w
i g g and you know, actually,
before you even stop,
before you even stop typing, here it is.
You can simply double click it
and there you go.
It even gives you the parentheses. Now,
a wiggle expression gives you
random values
based on two parameters frequency.
How often should it give you these
random values and magnitude?
How much should they be?
So frequency is measured
in times per second,
while magnitude is measured
in whatever unit
this property is using,
position is measured on pixel coordinates.
So if we were to type to give me
random values two times per second,
comma 200, it means go
plus or -200 from both these numbers
to commit to the expression
click out of it.
And now if you play,
you're going to see that indeed,
we are wiggling
the position of this layer.
Do you want to wiggle it faster?
That's fine. Change the first number.
I'll change it to a five
and now it should wiggle a lot faster.
All right.
You want to wiggle it more less
than change the magnitude number.
So wiggle frequency. Magnitude.
How often? How much?
Now, there are different things
that you need to know about expressions.
And listen,
we're just getting started here, so it's
okay if you need to pause,
you need to rewatch something.
I have divided this already in chapters
so you can go to a specific chapter
and just watch that.
So let's continue here.
Let's talk about position
having two numbers,
one for X and one for Y.
So imagine that you want to wiggle
only the up and down,
but not the side to side.
What to do, what to do, what to do.
Well, you can create variables.
All right.
So a variable is a placeholder
for information.
Now I'm going to go ahead and delete this.
So present,
hold alt click on the stopwatch.
And now the same thing that added the
expression lets me delete the expression.
So here we go.
If I right click the word position,
I can separate the dimensions.
So now I have X and I have Y.
And you know what?
Yeah.
I could then add the wiggle to only the Y.
But look what happens
if you do it to scale.
There is no way to separate
the dimensions of scale.
So I'm going to undo the separation
of the dimensions
and now I'm going to use variables.
A variable is a place holder
for information.
All right?
It's called variable because it changes.
Like every time you look at a clock,
it changes type.
Go figure. Right.
So that would be a variable
that it shows you,
whatever that container
has at that moment in time.
So here we go.
Let's enable the expression,
add the expression
by pressing on holding alt,
click on the stopwatch.
We can name our variables
anything we want to name them.
I'm just going to keep it simple
and I'm going to name my variable
A, B, and C, so a space equals space.
New line B Space equals space.
New line C space equals space.
Now, the reason
why in this case we need to use a variable
is because we want to separate the X
from the Y.
The reason for that is because
position has two values or three really,
if you're dealing with three D
and that is known as an array
position, zero will always be X
side to side position
one is going to be Y up and down
and position two is going to be Z
closer or farther from the camera.
So right now we're not in 3D,
so our array has two
indexes, the zero and the one for X and Y.
So here we go.
Let's define the first variable,
which I named A and by the way,
we could have named it Luisa Blue Dog,
Yellow Cat, Anything you want.
You just can't name a variable
with a key word.
In other words,
you can't name your variable wiggle.
So it has to be a
word that
doesn't mean anything in the script.
An A is just as good.
We could have called it
exposicion y position,
something like that, but not position.
All right, so here we go.
Notice that we have a squiggly line,
very similar, identical
to the one for parenting.
So with this squiggly line,
we are going to point,
we're going to click and drag
and point to the x.
Look where my insertion line is
is right after the A, we're defining A
So I'm going to click on this pick whip
expression, pick whip,
and I'm going to pointed to the x boom.
It writes the variable for me.
Look at the language transform position.
We already saw that
and it gives it the index number.
Remember, we are pointing only at the X
and that is index number zero.
Now in expression language
we end sentences with a semicolon.
All right.
So after we define that
first variable
and we go to the second line,
right, we're going to put
a little semicolon there at the end.
I'm sorry I clicked out of it.
And yes, I'm getting an expression error
because I clicked out of it
inadvertently
and I wasn't done doing my expression.
So After Effects, it's just saying,
Hey, Luisa, what's going on here?
This is not making any sense.
All right, let's define B now.
Click and drag it to the Y.
See, it's identical, but it has a one
because the Y has an index of one.
The C is because I need
to put these two together in the array.
So square brackets,
as soon as you open one After Effects,
we've closed the other one.
So inside A comma B
and now the expression is working
perfectly
well of course is not doing anything yet.
Right.
Because we're just saying, hey,
for the Y over this position,
look at the Y of this position,
for the X of this position,
look at the X of this position
and then put them together X and Y.
Yeah.
It's not doing anything but we're going to
replace the B which is the Y,
Don't grab the index with
wiggle open parentheses these two comma.
Oh let's do 250,
click out of there for good measure
and now it's wiggling
only the Y.
All right,
imagine for a second
that you want to do this with scale
because we already saw.
Hey, listen, you don't have to do
these variables for position.
Sometimes you do what you have to
for scale.
So let's go ahead and delete
the expression here and let's
go to scale press and hold alt or option.
And now here we go.
A Space equals space.
B space equals space.
See space equals space
square brackets, A comma
B, and there you go,
point the x width with goes first
point to the height,
then height and width, semicolon
for good measure.
And now the expression again
is not doing anything.
Now let's do it to the width select
transform, dot scale.
And instead of telling it hey,
for the width of this layer,
look at the width of this layer,
we're going to say, Hey,
for the width of this layer, wiggle it,
wiggle two times per
second and let's say 50%
and it's
50% because
scale is measured in percentages.
So here we go. Done.
And now it's wiggling the width.
All right.
So we have learned two important things.
We've learned wiggle
and we've learned well arrays
and we have learned variables.
Very, very important.
All right. Let's go on now.
Let's connect to properties
that might be on connectable.
All right.
So here we go.
I'm going to delete the shape layer,
and I'm going to create a new one,
which will be an ellipse.
And in fact, let me make it a little bit
taller, only so that we can see it in.
Now, I will center that anchor point
the same way that we did before
with the selection tool Active Press
and Hold Control and then double click
the anchor point tool.
And that centers
that anchor point in that layer.
So here we go.
Let's keyframe the position of this layer
so that it goes from left
to right, right.
And there it is.
And maybe it's going to be going left
and right and left and right.
Maybe eventually a lot of wiggle.
And whatever it is, it doesn't matter.
What I want is asks this goes forward.
I want for the layer to rotate
and I want for the rotation
to be controlled by the position
of the layer more precisely
by the x position of the layer.
So position is still showing
and we want it to show shift.
R And now we show rotation
press and hold alt click on the stopwatch
and now we are going to point,
we're going to use the pick whip to go
not to the word position,
not to the Y, but to the x x.
So we are
we are pick whipping to the x value set.
And there you go.
Now, if you look at this,
it's indeed as it moves forward,
as it moves to the right, is rotating.
So this expression is letting me control
the rotation of the layer
with the position of the layer.
Now it's rotating rather quickly.
I mean, look at the numbers, right?
So it starts with 214
because this is 214 as it moves.
See how this is 500.
This is going to be 500.4.
That's because it just leaves it at 360
and then it puts a one, right.
So that's how rotation works
in After Effects.
And here we go.
Let's change this.
The rate of change of the rotation
is too high.
So I'm going to go
and I'm going to talk to the expression
and I'm going to say, make it
half, make it half.
So I'm going to divide
whatever value it gets from position.
I'm going to divide it by two,
and that's a forward slash to
and now the rotation is slower.
See it?
I can even divide it by more.
It doesn't have to be two,
it could be 2.5.
And that should give me something
that is a little bit
more realistic with this egg shaped thing
rotating.
Let's go ahead and delete these key frames
and delete this
this expression.
And now let's interpolate things
without using keyframes.
So let's say we want to do position.
We want to start here, right?
It doesn't really matter.
We're going to add the expression here
And now
let's talk
about one of these little icons.
These see this one
that looks like a little play button.
That is the expression language menu.
Click here and you will see
that there is an entire section
for interpolation,
gradual changes in a property.
So we are going to go to easy
ese this 1tt min t max value one.
My value to
all you need to do is click there ese.
This is going to be an easy ese and again,
I inadvertently clicked out of it
and now it's giving me an error.
That is because I need to change
some of these things.
The T is the property.
The property
that is going to control the interpolation
in this case is going to be time.
So the
time in the time line
will determine the interpolation.
So time will control
when the animation starts.
So this is the time in
when the animation ends.
This is the T max
I want the values at first will be
and then what
the values at the end will be.
So we're going to start this at 2 seconds.
We're going to end it at 5 seconds.
So two comma five.
The value at the beginning is
this is an array.
All right.
So we got to put it in square brackets.
Let's start it where it is right now,
which is 230,
comma, 438.
And at the end, it's going to end at 430.
And I don't want for the Y to change.
So that's going to be 438.
And there you have it.
The expression will start at 2 seconds
and then go all the way to 5 seconds
and move the many pixels.
Oh no, I needed to move more.
Well then change that value and now
is going to move much more.
See it
Now this is an ease
and I am sure you saw it
already in the interpolation,
but let's go over
some of the other icons that we see here.
The first one here is an equal sign
that is blue.
This enables and disables the expression
without having to delete it.
So, oh, I want to see how it looks
without the expression done.
So you go, Oh,
I want to see the expression again. Done
this second icon.
If you hover above it,
it just says show post expression graph
and you can
click there and you don't see anything.
But that's
because we don't have a graph editor open.
So here we go. That that's it.
So you see the little curve here
because it is an easy is
we already saw this little squiggly line
and we already saw the expression
language menu.
There is one more thing
that I want to show you, and that is this.
You can select the property
and then go to animation
keyframe assistant,
convert expression to keyframes.
So yes,
sometimes you just want the keyframes.
So maybe you had a wiggle
and now you want the keyframes
because you want to change them.
Otherwise it doesn't really matter.
You can convert the expression
to keyframes.
And now we have a gazillion keyframes
instead of the expression.
So the expression got disabled,
it's still there. But
what is creating the
animation now is indeed the keyframes.
All right.
So let's talk a little bit
about other values that we may have.
Let's I will delete this
and let's create a rectangle,
and I'm going to create it
horizontally like that.
And same thing
I want to center that anchor point.
And there you go.
Now let's go ahead and create
a maybe a wiggle expression for rotation.
So for rotation press and hold
alt or option, click on the stopwatch.
And now let's type
wiggle to come let's say 60.
Right?
And there it is is doing its thing.
But I want you to notice that the value
and I stop at a random place.
The value here is -50.5.
All right.
May be
I want for all of these values to be
even numbers.
You know, I just want 50.
I don't want 50.5.
So I can round up I can round down
or I can just round some numbers up
and sum down depending on, you know,
So five will go to the, to the top number
and four we go to the bottom one.
Right.
So it would round it either up or down.
If you click on this expression
language menu,
you can go to Java script math
and you're going to see here
a method called math
math.
So you have course a constant.
So cosine, all of that.
But look at these math round
math seal and math floor.
So if it's math floor,
it will always round down.
If it's math ceil ceiling,
it will always round up
and if it's math round
it'll just go where it needs to go
depending on what that decimal number is.
So if we select math round there it is.
Notice that the value is
what needs to be edited,
so the value is going to be wiggle
to comma 60
and now it doesn't matter where we are,
that number here will be an even number
and that will affect the animation
a little bit.
Notice that is a little bit more jagged
because it's not going in between degrees.
all right.
So we have talked
about how to add the expression, how
to connect to different properties
with the picked whip.
Right.
And we have talked about how to create
a wiggle expression.
We talked about variables, random numbers,
and rounding these numbers.
Now, I'd like to talk a little bit
about using other types of expressions.
For example, we can have something
called an expression control.
So let's go ahead
and I'm just going to delete this
and let's create a new
circle here and P for position.
Let's go ahead and add the expression
to position and now type the wiggle
to time, say 300.
And there it is.
So what if I want to keyframe this wiggle
and I could do it in code, but
let's pretend I don't know how to do it.
All right,
So how do I keyframe this expression? Yes.
You know what?
I could convert these to keyframes,
and then I can do it like that.
But there is a much easier way.
Let's create a new layer.
Layer new null object.
A null object is a layer of nothingness.
All right, So let's let's name
this control layer
to rename anything
in After Effects selected press enter.
Well, almost anything.
So press ENTER type in the the new name
and you got it.
So now I'm going to select this
layer and let's go to effect
expression controls slider control.
And there you have it.
This slider control is going to help me
keyframe this wiggle.
So here we go, select the control layer
in the timeline and press
the letter E for effect,
and then expand it
so that you can see the slider here
in the timeline.
Okay.
So I am going to keyframe the wiggle
by keyframing the magnitude.
All right. I could do it with a frequency.
So instead of 2%, two times
per second, zero times per second.
But I'm going to do it with the magnitude
simply double click
that value that number and After Effects
will select that for you.
Now use the pick whip
and point to the slider.
All right, just click and drag
and the expression gets written for you.
Let's just look at it.
This look the wiggle two times per second.
And then for the magnitude,
look at this comp layer control layer
the effects slider
control the property slider.
There you go.
The wiggle will not wiggle
even if we play.
And the reason for that
is because the slider control is at zero.
We can keyframe it. Now.
So keyframe it here, move in time,
move this value.
And there you go.
It's going to start at zero and then it's
going to start doing its thing.
We're going to keyframe it again,
and now it's
going to go back to zero.
And we have in essence,
keyframed this,
Oh, what if I want to do it in code,
I want to do this in code,
So I'm going to delete this layer
and now the expression is
giving me an error because the expression
is referring to a layer.
And that, if fact, that doesn’t exist.
So we want to keyframe, so
to speak, this expression in the
code, how to do that?
Well,
just like
many other things, I have found as of late
that ChatGPT can help me.
Let's go to chatGPT and ask it.
Can you write an After Effects expression
that will start a wiggle
at 2 seconds, at 2 seconds,
and end it at 5 seconds?
Copy the code
and now let's paste it here.
Look at the time,
time, time, time.
Boom. Look at this.
Start to 2 seconds
and end at 5 seconds.
You already know how this wiggle is
is working.
So instead of ten,
maybe I just want it to be two.
And instead of 100, I want it to be 300.
And there you have it.
It will start at 2 seconds.
And that 5 seconds and voila,
our wiggle is keyframe.
All right.
So just like that,
you can use ChatGPT to write
many other expressions for you,
but it helps if you understand
the structure of the expression
so that you can modify it accordingly.
All right.
Okay.
Let's go on.
Let's talk about
some really useful expressions.
So I'm going to go ahead
and delete that expression.
And now I'm just going to create
a little bounce.
So from here it'll go to here.
All right.
I want this to loop forever and a day.
I want it to loop.
So we're going to use a loop expression.
So here we go.
Alt click on the stopwatch option
if you're on the Mac.
And now you can go to the expression
language menu, you can go to property
and look at this loop in, loop out,
loop in duration, etc., etc..
So I'm just going to go to the loop out
and notice
that I have here a cycle cycle.
Look at this left
to right, boom, back to left.
See it?
So it's
looping all I want it to go faster.
Yeah.
Move the keyframes closer to each other.
Look at that.
But it's still cycling,
so it's like a typewriter, right?
Boop, boop.
I want it to go. Boing, boing,
boing, boing.
Instead of cycle, I want it to ping pong
left and right and left.
And you know what?
I can even select the keyframes
and go to animation.
Keyframe assistant.
Easy is.
And it's just following the Easy, easy.
Oh, I needed to go faster.
Go faster.
See what I mean?
So this is what I mean with expressions
Make our life easier.
This is this a heck of a lot easier
than key framing All those things mean.
That's two key frames
and it's just going back and forth
and back and forth and back and forth.
So let's go ahead and delete
all those extra layers and let's have
the composition completely clean
and let's
create a new layer here.
So I'm going to use the rectangle tool.
I'll just do about yay,
and I don't want to stroke this time.
So and also
I want it to rotate here from the left.
All right, so select the
layer, press R for rotation
and then enable the expression and type
wiggle to come up.
Let's say 60.
So it's going to wiggle two times
per second, 60 degrees.
All right,
perfect.
Now we're going to clamp these values.
All right?
So we're going to clamp these values.
So that they don't go any more
than whatever or any less than whatever.
And I'm using wiggle just to show you.
But in reality,
this can be with anything at all.
So we're going to clamp these values,
select that expression and cut it.
Control or command X.
Now we're going to type
the following clamp.
So just type in the word clamp.
And even before you're done typing,
there it is.
Make sure it's selected and press enter.
And there you go.
So we are going to clamp
the value.
All right.
So the
value is going to be the wiggle, right?
And then we are going to type it.
We're going to clamp it to minus so comma,
-45 and plus 45.
So even though we're wiggling 60,
we're clamping the value of this
now, the 45 value
and let's play it from the beginning
and we don't see too much in here.
And the reason for that,
I mean, if you look at the values
even up here, it's only doing 31.
So you know what?
Instead of 45,
I'm going to clamp it at five.
All right. And here we go.
It's not going to go any higher
than five or any lower than minus five,
because I am clamping the values
and because the wiggle
is trying to make the values go more.
That's why you see this just clamped
but moving at seemingly random intervals.
All right.
So clamping the values is super useful.
All right, let's go on.
Let's create two solids.
So delete whatever you have in there
and let's create two solids.
So controller command y, one red is good,
and let's make the other one green
because why not?
Select both layers,
ask for scale and let's making about Yay.
And now we're going to just separate them.
Like we don't
really need to separate them,
but let's just do it anyway.
Let's talk to Green and add
a wiggle expression
to the position of green.
All right, so all to our option.
Click on the stopwatch and wiggle
to comma 400, whatever.
Right.
So now Green is just wiggling left
and right
to red.
Let's add an effect called layer control.
So select the red, go to effect
expression controls, layer control,
and now the layer is going to be
the green solid.
See it here in the control panel,
make it a little bit
wider so you can see a better set.
Now that in essence, is doing
absolutely nothing.
But now we're going to talk
to the position
of the red solid.
So P4 position
and we want to see the layer control
and now we are going to add the expression
to position
and now we're going to pick,
whip to layer.
All right.
So look what it says,
effect, layer, control,
layer Now dot
transform
and you don't have to finish typing
and then dot position
and there you have it.
And now
the two are going
right on top of the other.
Right?
So right now, because of this effect,
I'm having read follow whatever Green does
now, I can offset this
by saying a minus, say 300,
and now you can see them side by side.
So this is a really good way
that you have it.
And you can say,
but you can do this with parenting.
Parenting is not as flexible.
You can't write a conditional
with parenting.
And remember,
parenting is either on or off.
You can time this, you know, So
this is kind of like parenting
but with more power, right?
And you can offset it by more.
It doesn't have to be 300.
It could be 600.
And there you have it.
They're doing exactly same thing.
You can also use variables
to separate the dimensions.
So not too bad.
now. Let's go ahead and delete
the red layer
and let's get rid of that expression
on green and I'm
just going to click and drag it to center
it a little bit more.
and let's go ahead and add the time
value expression
to the scale of this layer.
So select the layer is for scale,
add the expression,
and in fact, let's use variables
so that we do it to the width
and not the height.
So a space equals space.
B space space equals space.
See space equals space.
And again, we're just going to do it
the easy way,
just point that itself
and then put the array together like that.
And don't forget the semicolons
for good measure.
All right.
So right now this is doing nothing.
But we separated the
the dimensions already with the variables.
So now it's going to become much easier.
So with goes first
a so zero will be the width.
Let's go ahead and add
that time,
time asterisk value.
All right.
So time, asterisk value
and look what happens.
The width of the layer
is controlled by the time.
And when I say time, do
I mean like abstract time?
No, I mean the play head time.
And if you find that,
oh no, this is going to quickly it's going
way too quickly,
you can actually divide that value in two.
So that is less.
So you're changing the rate of change.
You could also Clamp it
and you can do math round.
So don't forget you have all of those
other tools at your disposal.
All right.
So there is also a ton of help online.
So if you go help here,
You can go to about After Effects,
After Effects, help in app tutorials,
online tutorials, scripting help.
And the one that interests us
is the expression reference.
So you can simply go to help
In the Adobe website.
Let me maximize this look,
you can loop with expressions.
There are other in here,
look at this JavaScript
and there's a ton of things in here,
including expression examples
that you can see in here in this side menu
and you can simply copy and paste them.
Look at this wiggle to comma 30.
so make sure that you use
all of the available resources.
And there's more.
I mean, all you need to do is Google
After Effects, expressions help.
There's also Dan Ebberts who has a website
and you can just look at the expressions
that he has
and when presented
with an issue, and listen.
If all else fails,
you can always send me a message
through through these messages on YouTube
or simply email me
and or anybody else.
Right.
So if I don't know the answer,
I assure you I know who to ask.
So, you know,
we're not supposed to know everything.
And asking for help is perfectly,
perfectly acceptable and is perfectly
fine.
So let's go back to After Effects
and let's
do one more expression.
But this time, let's use a text layer.
So I'm going to grab my type tool.
I'm just going to type.
I am a text layer.
I'll center this
just by clicking and dragging.
I will make it a little bit bigger
so we can see it better.
And in fact, you know what?
Let me have it left align
and there you have it.
Now let's go ahead and add an animator
for scale here.
And it is in this scale
that we're going to add expression.
So I'm going to make this a little bit
taller press and hold alt or option in.
Now we're going to type the expression,
We are going to have variables.
The first one is going to be frequency.
So frequency space equals space
and then amplitude amp space equals space.
All right.
So let's say
the frequency is going to be three.
And this is a comment.
So slash, slash is going to be
a human comment
that you can use
to send you or other messages.
So what it is that that line is doing,
So frequency of the change is measured
in times per second,
right?
Then amplitude, we're talking about scale.
So I think I want to do at least a 75%.
So slash, slash
changes in the scale of this
layer measured in percentages.
All right.
So I'm just sending myself messages.
So frequency amplitude.
And now I need to put this together
somehow.
Now, I inadvertently clicked outside of
this, and let's just do our
variables here.
Be space equals space.
And C and this is just going to put A
and B together.
So A, it's going to look at itself,
B is going to look at itself.
And now is
that we're going to add some things.
So here at the end,
plus amp.
All right.
And on the second line also plus amp,
so plus amp.
All right.
Times times math
dot sin.
And then we're going to type
frequency times time.
All right.
So we can actually copy that entire thing
and we can paste it here.
But instead of sin, it's
going to be so sin us
and sine is going to be cost us in cosine
and then frequency plus time.
And that should actually do the animation
perfectly well.
This just a little bit wavy, right?
We can take that entire expression,
we can cut it
and we can now add
to the scale of the layer itself
and it works slightly different.
The reason why it works different
is because when you add an animator,
as you already know, then it's
working on the individual characters.
So each and every character
is going to have its own anchor point
and it's going to change the scale
according to that anchor point.
Well, if you add it to the layer,
then it's adding it to the layer
based on the anchor point of the layer.
So there you have it,
a very wavy animation
that you can use for whatever.
Congratulations.
You have now gained a solid understanding
of expressions in After Effects.
I hope this video has provided you
with a strong foundation
to start incorporating expressions
into your motion design projects.
Remember, Expressions offer
incredible potential
for automation, efficiency
and dynamic control over your animations.
Don't be afraid to experiment,
explore further,
and push the boundaries
of what you can achieve with expressions.
If you enjoyed this video,
be sure to give it a thumbs up
and subscribe to my channel.
I publish weekly tutorials.
Feel free to leave any questions
or comments down below.
Thanks for watching
and we'll see you in the next video.